README.md, before:

# Evan: EValuation of Abstract Nodes

The main goal of the *Evan programming language* is to bootstrap a working, functional-style general purpose programming language which nestles comfortably in the JavaScript-world, complete with tools like an evaluator and IDE.

It also ports selected virtues of a number of existing languages (most notably: Lisp) to the context of JavaScript.
The IDE should (eventually) be implemented as an Evan program itself, making it meta-circular.

The following technology is used: Node.js, NPM, TypeScript, Browserify, React and [MobX](https://mobxjs.github.io/mobx/).


## Getting started

To get started:

1. Clone this repository.
2. In the cloned repository, execute: `npm install`
3. To start a Web server with the IDE, execute: `npm start`.
	Then point a browser to [`http://localhost:8031`](http://localhost:8031) to interact with the IDE.
	Select an available file/resource to inspect and/or edit and see its evaluation.
4. To run the tests for the evaluator, execute: `npm test`.
5. To (re-)build the IDE (after having made changes), execute `npm build-web` and re-load it in the browser.
	Hot reloading isn't implemented yet and meta-circularity of the IDE would actually make that circuitous.
6. To run the standalone evaluator on arbitrary (but valid) JSON, execute: `npm run build-core`, `node dist/test/cli.js (<) data/fib.json`.
	You can input JSON either by specifying a path as last argument or by passing it to `stdin`.


## Documentation

All other documentation you can find under [`documentation/`](./documentation).
Right now, the menu offers the following selection of dishes:

* [How to contribute](./documentation/Contributing.md)
* [TODOs that form a short-term roadmap of sorts](./documentation/TODO.md)
* [A primordial design](./documentation/Design.md)


## About the name

As you've probably already noticed, the "Evan" acronym is awkward.
That's because is retrofitted to the name of my first-born :)

Commit message:

add External Objects mechanism, and do a lot of Refactoring and upgrading:
describe External Objects mechanism in documentation
update documentation for re-organizations
re-organize testing data
fix object-function invocation
fix Web watching
re-organize resources/repositories code
fix type widget for object invocation
re-organize code to have all TypeScript code more centrally
do some Refactoring and documentation; add expected evaluation of `object-interface.json` (fixes test)
use TS2.1 object spread instead of lodash one
update README for yarn
replace TSD typings with TS2.1-compliant ones
implement 1st attempt at an object interface
update TS and package.json; add Gitignore for yarn’s lock file

README.md, after:

# Evan: EValuation of Abstract Nodes

The main goal of the *Evan programming language* is to bootstrap a working, functional-style general purpose programming language which nestles comfortably in the JavaScript-world, complete with tools like an evaluator and IDE.

It also ports selected virtues of a number of existing languages (most notably: Lisp) to the context of JavaScript.
The IDE should (eventually) be implemented as an Evan program itself, making it meta-circular.

The following technology is used: Node.js, NPM, TypeScript, Browserify, React and [MobX](https://mobxjs.github.io/mobx/).


## Getting started

To get started:

1. Clone this repository.
2. In the cloned repository, execute: `npm install`.
3. To start a Web server with the IDE, execute: `npm start`.
	Then point a browser to [`http://localhost:8031`](http://localhost:8031) to interact with the IDE.
	Select an available file/resource to inspect and/or edit and see its evaluation.
4. To run the tests for the evaluator, execute: `npm test`.
5. To (re-)build the IDE (after having made changes), execute `npm bundle-web` and re-load it in the browser.
	Hot reloading isn't implemented yet and meta-circularity of the IDE would actually make that circuitous.
6. To run the standalone evaluator on arbitrary (but valid) JSON, execute: `npm run build-ts`, `node dist/core/cli.js (<) test/programs/fib.json`.
	You can input JSON either by specifying a path as last argument or by passing it to `stdin`.

Note that you can use `yarn` instead of `npm` everywhere, although the scripts in `package.json` still reference `npm`.


## Documentation

All other documentation you can find under [`documentation/`](./documentation).
Right now, the menu offers the following selection of dishes:

* [How to contribute](./documentation/Contributing.md)
* [TODOs that form a short-term roadmap of sorts](./documentation/TODO.md)
* [A primordial design](./documentation/Design.md)
* [The _External Objects_ mechanism](./documentation/ExternalObjects.md)


## About the name

As you've probably already noticed, the "Evan" acronym is awkward.
That's because is retrofitted to the name of my first-born :)
